package EventDiary; # just to make PodWeaver happy

# AUTHORITY
# DATE
# DIST
# VERSION

1;
# ABSTRACT: Write event diaries conveniently

=head1 SPECIFICATION STATUS

The 0.1.x version series is still unstable.


=head1 SPECIFICATION VERSION

0.1


=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document specifies a format of text diary called "EventDiary" geared
towards writing short entries and optimized for convenience writing by humans,
especially when typing on devices like touchscreen phones.


=head1 GLOSSARY

=head2 document

A document is a series of entries, comment lines, or blank lines.

=head2 comment line

A comment line is a non-blank line that starts with C<#> (hash) character. It is
ignored.

=head2 blank line

A blank line is a line that does not contain any character or contains only
whitespace characters.

=head2 entry

An entry is a single non-blank line or a single paragraph that contains a
timestamp, event name, and optionally a content:

 <WS>* <TIMESTAMP> <WS>+ <EVENT> ( <WS>+ <CONTENT> )?

An entry can be represented programmatically with a hash (key-value pairs).
Aside from C<timestamp>, C<event> (event name), and C<content> (raw content
which is whatever after the timestamp and event name), other keys can be
extracted from the raw content through predefined patterns.

If there is no blank line in the document, entries are assumed to be single
lines. Otherwise, entries must be written as paragraphs: non-blank lines
separated by at least a single blank line, or hanging paragraphs (first line not
indented, subsequent lines indented).

Examples:

 0510 urinate v100

Timestamp is 0510 (05:10), event is "urinate", and raw content is "v100". From
this, another key-pair can be extracted: C<volume: 100>.

 1120 c I feel dizzy and hungry, but can still work and think. I think I will
   continue fasting until past noon.

Timestamp is 1120 (11:20), event is "c" (comment), and the rest is the raw
content (newline removed): "I feel dizzy and hungry, but can still work and
think. I think I will continue fasting until past noon."

=head2 timestamp

Either time of day in the format of:

 hhmm
 hh:mm
 hhmmss
 hh:mm:ss

examples:

 1130
 11:30
 113000
 11:30:00

or date in the format of:

 YYYY-MM-DD
 MMMD
 DMMM
 DMMMYY
 DMMMYYYY

where MMM is abbreviated month name in English, examples:

 2021-03-26
 2021-03-01
 mar26
 mar01
 mar1
 26mar
 1mar
 01mar
 01mar21
 1mar2021

or date + time of day in the format of:

 YYYY-MM-DD"T"<hh:mm>
 YYYY-MM-DD"T"<hh:mm:ss>
 <date> <WS>+ <time>

where C<< <date> >> and C<< <time> >> are all allowed date formats and
time-of-day formats, respectively. Examples:

 2021-03-26T11:30
 2021-03-26T11:30:00
 26mar 1130


=head1 FAQ

=head2 What if I want to write a multiparagraph entry?

TBD


======================================================================

=head1 DESCRIPTION


=head1 GLOSSARY

=head1 EVENT DIARY SPECIFICATION

Diary is a text containing lines of B<entries> or paragraphs of entries. If
there is a blank line, entries are assumed to be in paragraphs; otherwise they
are assumed to be single line each. When entries are written in paragraphs, they
will be reformatted to be single lines first during parsing.

Each entry begins with a B<timestamp>. Timestamp is one of:

 YYYY-MM-DD"T"hh:mm
 YYYY-MM-DD"T"hh:mm-H2:m2
 hh:mm
 hh:mm-h2:m2
 hhmm
 hhmm-h2m2

where hh is in 24-hour format. Examples:

 2020-12-14T10:12
 10:12
 1012
 10:12-10:24

Entries must be written chronologically.

After timestamp, whitespace (one or more spaces) and B<event name> must appear.
Examples of event name: C<urinate>, C<drink> (for a bladder diary), C<sleep>,
C<wake>, C<rise> (for a sleep diary).

Only known events, which are defined in the diary specification, are allowed.

An event name can have aliases (usually shorthand), e.g. C<u> for C<urinate>,
C<d> for C<drink>, and so on.

After an event name, free text can follow (e.g. description, comment, etc).
Attributes (pairs of name and values separated by C<=>) will be extracted from
the free text. Attribute name should be a single word (/\b\w+\b/) while value
can be double-quoted text or text that is ended by the nearest comma, semicolon,
or period. Examples:

 0915 drink type=tea vol=300, pretty thirsty.

Attributes are "type" (value "tea") and "vol" (value 300).

 0915 d type=tea vol=300, comment="pretty thirsty, haven't drunk for a few
 hours"

Attributes are "type" (value "tea"), "vol" (value 300), and "comment" (value
"pretty thirsty, haven't drunk for a few hours").

The diary specification also defines what keys are allowed and the type (schema)
of each key.

To ease typing, patterns can also be defined to extract keys and values from the
free text. For example /\bv\d+\b/ is defined as a shorthand to write the C<vol>
key:

 0915 d v300


=head1 KEYWORDS


=head1 SEE ALSO
